{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang3082
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red31\green73\blue125;\red68\green114\blue196;\red84\green130\blue53;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs32\cf2 Riqueza Digital \endash  Google Ads API Tool Design Documentation\b0\fs20\par

\pard\sb120\sa80\f1\fs18\cf1
\b Version:\b0  1.0 \tab\b Date:\b0  June 2026 \tab\b Contact:\b0  info@riquezadigital.es\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 1. Company Overview\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
Riqueza Digital is a digital marketing agency based in Spain providing performance marketing services to small and medium-sized businesses. The agency manages Google Ads and Meta Ads accounts on behalf of clients on a monthly retainer basis, covering sectors including e-commerce, home services, and professional services.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 2. Tool Description\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
The tool is an internal Python-based reporting and campaign management pipeline called \b Riqueza Digital Marketing Pipeline\b0 . It enables the agency team to:\par
\pard\li360\sb60\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1
\bullet\tab Pull campaign performance metrics from multiple client Google Ads accounts via the API\par
\bullet\tab Generate structured weekly and monthly performance reports for client delivery\par
\bullet\tab Create and stage new campaigns for human review before any activation\par
\bullet\tab Consolidate data across platforms (Google Ads + Meta Ads) into unified client dashboards\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
The tool is used exclusively by internal agency staff. It is not a SaaS product and is not distributed to third parties.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 3. System Architecture\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f2\fs18\cf1
  [Google Ads Accounts]\par
         |\par
         |  OAuth2 (per-client refresh_token)\par
         v\par
  [Google Ads API v14+]\par
         |\par
         |  GAQL queries (read-only metrics)\par
         v\par
  [Python Client Layer]\par
    google_client.py\par
    get_google_insights.py\par
         |\par
         |  Structured JSON / console output\par
         v\par
  [Report Generation]\par
    Weekly PDF / Notion integration\par
         |\par
         v\par
  [Human Review (Agency Staff)]\par
    Approves any campaign changes\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1\par
Authentication uses OAuth2 with per-client \b refresh_token\b0  stored in individual JSON profile files. Credentials are never hardcoded.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 4. API Usage\b0\fs20\par

\pard\sb120\sa60\b\f1\fs20\cf3 4.1 Resources Accessed (Read)\b0\par
\pard\sb60\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1
The tool queries the following resources via \b GoogleAdsService.search()\b0  using GAQL:\par
\pard\li360\sb60\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1
\bullet\tab \b campaign\b0  \endash  name, id, status\par
\bullet\tab \b campaign_budget\b0  \endash  amount_micros\par
\bullet\tab \b ad_group\b0  \endash  name, id, status\par
\bullet\tab \b metrics\b0  \endash  impressions, clicks, cost_micros, ctr, average_cpc, average_cpm, conversions, conversions_value, cost_per_conversion\par
\bullet\tab \b segments.date\b0  \endash  for date range filtering\par

\pard\sb120\sa60\b\f1\fs20\cf3 4.2 Example GAQL Query\b0\par
\pard\sb60\sa60\f2\fs18\cf1
SELECT\par
  campaign.id, campaign.name, campaign.status,\par
  campaign_budget.amount_micros,\par
  metrics.impressions, metrics.clicks, metrics.cost_micros,\par
  metrics.ctr, metrics.average_cpc, metrics.conversions,\par
  metrics.conversions_value, metrics.cost_per_conversion\par
FROM campaign\par
WHERE segments.date DURING LAST_30_DAYS\par
  AND campaign.status != 'REMOVED'\par
ORDER BY metrics.cost_micros DESC\par

\pard\sb120\sa60\b\f1\fs20\cf3 4.3 Write Operations\b0\par
\pard\sb60\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
Campaign creation is supported but \b always requires explicit human approval\b0  before execution. All campaigns are created with \b status: PAUSED\b0  and activated manually by agency staff after review. Budget modifications above \cf1\b\f1 100\cf1\b0\f1  EUR/day require additional confirmation. These safeguards are enforced at the code level.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 5. Access Scope\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
OAuth2 scope requested: \b https://www.googleapis.com/auth/adwords\b0\par
\par
The tool accesses accounts where the agency has been granted explicit access by the client, either as a linked manager account or via direct OAuth2 authorization by the account owner.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 6. Data Handling\b0\fs20\par
\pard\li360\sb60\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1
\bullet\tab API responses are processed in memory and written to local report files\par
\bullet\tab No data is stored in external databases or shared with third parties\par
\bullet\tab Credentials (tokens, secrets) are stored in local profile files, never in source code\par
\bullet\tab Logs record action timestamps and parameters for audit purposes\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 7. Estimated API Usage\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
Expected call volume: \b 50\endash200 API calls per day\b0  across all clients. Usage is primarily scheduled reporting runs (daily briefing, weekly reports) and on-demand queries by agency staff. No automated bidding or high-frequency polling.\par

\pard\sb240\sa120\b\f1\fs24\cf2 8. Contact\b0\fs20\par
\pard\sb80\sa80\f1\fs20\cf1
\b Riqueza Digital\b0\par
info@riquezadigital.es\par
www.riquezadigital.es\par
Spain\par
}
